Bilateral Variational Autoencoder for Collaborative Filtering

Reproducibility Companion Paper: Visual Sentiment Analysis for Review Images with Item-Oriented and User-Oriented CNN
We revisit our contributions on visual sentiment analysis for online review images published at ACM Multimedia 2017, where we develop item-oriented and user-oriented convolutional neural networks that better capture the interaction of image features with specific expressions of users or items. In this work, we outline the experimental claims as well as describe the procedures to reproduce the results therein. In addition, we provide artifacts including data sets and code to replicate the experiments.

Cornac: A Comparative Framework for Multimodal Recommender Systems
Cornac is an open-source Python framework for multimodal recommender systems. In addition to core utilities for accessing, building, evaluating, and comparing recommender models, Cornac is distinctive in putting emphasis on recommendation models that leverage auxiliary information in the form of a social network, item textual descriptions, product images, etc. Such multimodal auxiliary data supplement user-item interactions (e.g., ratings, clicks), which tend to be sparse in practice. To facilitate broad adoption and community contribution, Cornac is publicly available at https://github.com/PreferredAI/cornac, and it can be installed via Anaconda or the Python Package Index (pip). Not only is it well-covered by unit tests to ensure code quality, but it is also accompanied with a detailed documentation, tutorials, examples, and several built-in benchmarking data sets

Multimodal Review Generation for Recommender Systems
Key to recommender systems is learning user preferences, which are expressed through various modalities. In online reviews, for instance, this manifests in numerical rating, textual content, as well as visual images. In this work, we hypothesize that modelling these modalities jointly would result in a more holistic representation of a review towards more accurate recommendations. Therefore, we propose Multimodal Review Generation (MRG), a neural approach that simultaneously models a rating prediction component and a review text generation component. We hypothesize that the shared user and item representations would augment the rating prediction with richer information from review text, while sensitizing the generated review text to sentiment features based on user and item of interest. Moreover, when review photos are available, visual features could inform the review text generation further. Comprehensive experiments on real-life datasets from several major US cities show that the proposed model outperforms comparable multimodal baselines, while an ablation analysis establishes the relative contributions of the respective components of the joint model.

VistaNet: Visual Aspect Attention Network for Multimodal Sentiment Analysis
Detecting the sentiment expressed by a document is a key task for many applications, e.g., modeling user preferences, monitoring consumer behaviors, assessing product quality. Traditionally, the sentiment analysis task primarily relies on textual content. Fueled by the rise of mobile phones that are often the only cameras on hand, documents on the Web (e.g., reviews, blog posts, tweets) are increasingly multimodal in nature, with photos in addition to textual content. A question arises whether the visual component could be useful for sentiment analysis as well. In this work, we propose Visual Aspect Attention Network or VistaNet, leveraging both textual and visual components. We observe that in many cases, with respect to sentiment detection, images play a supporting role to text, highlighting the salient aspects of an entity, rather than expressing sentiments independently of the text. Therefore, instead of using visual information as features, VistaNet relies on visual information as alignment for pointing out the important sentences of a document using attention. Experiments on restaurant reviews showcase the effectiveness of visual aspect
attention, vis-a-vis visual features or textual attention.

Visual Sentiment Analysis for Review Images with Item-Oriented and User-Oriented CNN
Online reviews are prevalent. When recounting their experience with a product, service, or venue, in addition to textual narration, a reviewer frequently includes images as photographic record. While textual sentiment analysis has been widely studied, in this paper we are interested in visual sentiment analysis to infer whether a given image included as part of a review expresses the overall positive or negative sentiment of that review. Visual sentiment analysis can be formulated as image classication using deep learning methods such as Convolutional Neural Networks or CNN. However, we observe that the sentiment captured within an image may be affected by three factors: image factor, user factor, and item factor. Essentially, only the rst factor had been taken into account by previous works on visual sentiment analysis. We develop item-oriented and user-oriented CNN that we hypothesize would beer capture the interaction of image features with specic expressions of users or items. Experiments on images from restaurant reviews show these to be more eective at classifying the sentiments of review images.